# MCC_Project

The Marginal Cost on Capital Project is an open source repository for the crowdsourced effort in quantitatively registering the cost/return on capital as a function of capital itself.

## A Discussion on Capital's Nature

An iron truth evident to all but the staunchest of psyche defense mechanisms, is the reality of the cumulative nature of capital. Whether it is a children of *luck* being able to learn a 3rd language for free thanks to his trust-fund sponsored vacation overseas, or a young waitress developing costly medical conditions and eventually dropping her education for working double shifts providing for her family, the implacable way in which **having** propels to the top and **lacking** drags one down, has only been ignored in the economic discussion through the most monumental efforts. 

While originally Capitalism was conceived as a meritocratic production system by means of competition, it has been since fundamentaly repurposed in numerous directions. Indeed the unequal access to Capital seems largely determined by the presence or absence of competition. However, instead of making the its **main objective**, to guarantee competition as the fundamental objective of capitalism, the contemporary orthodoxy **assumes** competition to be, and on top of this a series of remedies are prescripted for increasingly *unexplicable* maladies. The Capital accumulation and economic competition dynamics become intrinsecaly intertwined and necessary for any discussion on meritocracy without even having to explore the political dimension.

Among the various reasons this perspective has hardly seen the light, it is the difficulty on quantitatively analysing the abstract concept of Capital (in its broader sense) ownership and access, immensely more so on the individual level. Nonetheless, as with many other things, it has become a real possibility with the advent of throves of data in the modern age. It should be pointed out that the naturaly accumulative nature of Capital hasn´t been systematically refuted ever, either. That Capital is just as easy to accure for the wealthy as for the pauper is just assumed as another axiom since the 80's devolution. Thus, as so often has been the case throughout history, the burden of proof has been taken from the shoulders of doctrine and put onto the scientific and the brotherly to break through. 

This is why the main objective of the project is to generate a stock of reliable data, and its rigurous processing, so as to scientifically address the long standing axiom of intrinsically meritocratic resource alocatement of Capital. For this, the interest rate being the cost/return on Capital itself, makes it the indicator par excelence on the access differentials of it. Thus the backbone of the project ought to be the distribution of commercial banking loans balance as a function of the interest rate, by client type: Large Enterprises vs SMEs, and top decil and percentile of society vs the desinfranchised majority. Even if somehow paliated by stronger welfare, and the very capital abundance vis-a-vis the developing world, the developed countries are no less subject to this dynamic throughout their economic stratas: while the top decile and behemont oligopolies enjoy the marvels of hyper-low interest rates, those with nothing but their income from labour are offered vastly different terms of credit. Indeed, whether its the sanctioned financial institutions' market rate for the general public and SMEs, or the loan-sharks' rate to which they are thrown by the credit rating system, financing the same single dollar is much costlier for those without Capital to begin with, than for those congested with it. It is extremely important to point out this is not an abherration of the system, but an unintended demonstration of Capital's dynamics inscribed fundamentaly in the economic system by design. Indeed the financial system allocates resources according to risk forecasts, it just so happens it is the first to acknowleadge the main factor behind Capital accumulation is Capital possession.

## The Project

The repository is to upload open source data reflecting on (broad interpretation) Capital access as a function of Capital ownership, as well as its processing code. The aim is to harness the potential and drive of economists and data analysts the world around, and through this combined effort generate a repertoire on whether or not the hypothesis of equally accesible capital holds. The repository won´t address any inference or delve on the myriad implications of this, but support anyone interested in substantiating thesis on this premise.

Anyone is invited and thanked for the precious time invested in collaborating on the project, and discussion is to be held publicly and respectfully. Although the main tool is set to be interest rate differentials accross economic strata, any other indicator that precisely, correctly, and markedly reflects this dynamic is another potent argument in what unconditionaly has become an overwhelming final mountain of evidence. For example, the way in which scholarship opportunities are accumulated exponentially by the same people, the way in which the same financial system offers vastly higher return rates for each investment magnitude above the previous, etc. are all indicative of how knowleadge, money, and opportunities, or their lack thereof, feedback on themselves.

More than enough constructive criticism will be crowdsourced for free to the challenged dogma. Being an arguably contentious subject, the MCC_Project will certainly be subject to abundant criticism if anything, so peer review is not the most immediate concern. As such, while the most incisive criticism into the methodolgy of data aquisition, processing, and interpretation is welcomed and heartfelt appreciated, any rebutal on the underlying and overarching economic understanding will only be addressed directly in the project as the time limitation allows, which should be assumed as *never*.
